# Evaluation of Project A

Thank you all for your work on the project. An email from me with the subject line **431 Project A Results** should appear in your preferred email by 5 PM on 2020-11-13. Please read the comments as coming from multiple people (including not just myself but also the TAs) and I hope you will forgive us any typographical or syntax errors, as I didn't find the time to closely edit all 70 sets of comments. As I wrote in that email, we hope that this was a useful exercise and that project B will be even more successful.

## Breakdown of Scores

Remember that in this course, 

- Grades of 85 and higher at the end of the semester convert to some form of A.
- Grades of 70 to 84.9 at the end of the semester convert to some form of B.

Most students scored at least a B on Project A. Those that did not skipped an important step in the process.

- The median grade on the Proposal (out of 25 points) was 22.5, and the maximum score achieved was 25
- The median grade on the Report (out of 40 points) was 34, and the maximum score achieved was 39
- The median grade on the Video (out of 25 points) was 20, and the maximum score achieved was 24.5
- The median grade on the Self-Evaluation (out of 10 points) was 8.5, and the maximum score achieved was 9.5
- No penalties were applied for lateness on the final report/video/self-evaluation.

If you have questions about your grade, please email Dr. Love directly.

## Sharing a Video

I plan to share just one of the video presentations, in an effort not to overwhelm you, and to encourage you all to watch it. When I have permission from the student involved, I will post it here. 

While the presentation isn't perfect, it does show what I believe to be an excellent result within the 3 minute time limit for an individual presentation, which is focused nicely on the things I thought were most important in their analysis. It also made good use of technology that should be available to you all, as opposed to some of the others that used very polished editing strategies. I'll note that there were many solid presentations, and some that were truly excellent, in addition to the one that I plan to share.

## Working with a Partner

Many of the partnerships worked well, although some did not, at least according to the self-evaluation and what I could tell from the videos.  If you worked with a partner, your grades on the proposal and report will be identical, but your grades on the video and self-evaluation will not (or at least won't necessarily) be the same.

- You should have received an email from me in the morning on 2020-11-13 indicating whether you are welcome to work alone or with a partner on Project B (that's the situation for most people) or whether you need to work alone. Let me know if you are unclear on your status.

## Comments in the Self-Evaluations

Unedited results from two questions asked in the self-evaluation follow, if you're interested to see what people (said they) learned.

1. [What was the key finding of your study?](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/431-2020/blob/master/projects/projectA/evaluation_results.md#what-was-the-key-finding-of-your-study)
2. [What is the most important thing that you know now that you wished you'd known when you began Project A?](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/431-2020/blob/master/projects/projectA/evaluation_results.md#what-is-the-most-important-thing-that-you-know-now-that-you-wished-youd-known-when-you-began-project-a)

The comments below are simply ordered alphabetically by comment.

### What was the key finding of your study?

- A key finding from my analysis was that higher reading levels on English standardized tests were associated with higher median household incomes for the four counties I studied. Additionally, states like Ohio and Indiana were less associated with higher median household incomes than the states of Wisconsin and Indiana. I also found that counties being from Ohio and Indiana had similar impacts on median household income.
- A key finding in my Analysis of Math Scores in the US was that a better choice of variables and states could have produced a more effective model. Using the chosen variables, I found that although my data did not require a transformation, the model showed a positive, linear relationship between variables and that higher math scores are generally related to higher income levels. The model was improved when accounting for differences between states.
- A key finding in this project was that the ratio of higher income residents to lower income residents per county  doesn't really determine health status, which was one of my most surprising results. I still maintain that it was because the answer key for health status was binary ("fair" or "poor") and ambiguous- maybe a likert scale that included fair or poor may be more indicative, or one that only contains "poor" health or "good" health (positive association for one, negative for the other). 
- A linear model is not a good fit in attempting to predict the average number of poor mental health days which someone living in any of the counties in the states of California, Ohio, New York, Nevada, and Georgia may expect to have within one month using the average number of poor mental health days of that county.
- A linear regression model is a good fit for predicting life expectancy using adult smoking rate across 400 counties in Ohio, Missouri, Illinois and Tennessee. The prediction is slightly better once we account for differences between states. The model captures more than 50% of variance and the association between the variable is strong across states. A major limitation is that the data is not random and is representative only for the selected states. 
- Across all 330 counties of Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, and Pennsylvania there is a negative association between life expectancy and percentage of uninsured adults. Effect size of uninsured adults on life expectancy seems to be small however, with an upper limit of -0.1 in the 90% confidence interval. Effect also appears to be eclipsed by differences between states, particularly between Pennsylvania and Ohio.
- Adult smoking is linked with reduced life expectancy in selected five states. 
- Alabama, Arkansas, Ohio and Wisconsin had a strong, highly linear, negative association between postsecondary education percentage and adult smoking prevalence. Wisconsin’s percentage of counties with some college education was higher and their adult smoking prevalence was lower than that in the other three states (the other three states were similar). For every additional one percentage point increase in some college percentage, there is a 2.57 decrease in adult smoking percentage in the state of Wisconsin.
- Alaska has the strongest positive association of unemployment and limited health food. The correlation is 0.71. One explanation for this result that is the population density. Alaska has 25 counties, and 20 of them have population below the median level. Ohio, Texas and Arizona states do not have the strong association of unemployment and limited health food. 
- All three predictors (frequent physical distress, unemployment rate, limited access to healthy foods ) in the three analyses negatively associate life expectancy.
- Among 316 US counties from states OH, FL, CA, WV, NM and ME, higher food environment index is associated with lower adult obesity rate even after accounting for difference between states, indicating an association between better food environment and lower obesity rate.  
- Counties with higher median household income also have higher life expectancy
- Counties with lower percentages of residents vaccinated from the flu were associated with having higher rates of poor mental health days
- First, I think the most important finding of our project is the life expectancy and adult obesity are not related to the state or region that you live in. By increasing the health behavior risk factors such as obesity or smoking the life expectancy will decrease accordingly regardless of the county you live in.  I also realized that converting a quantitative variable to a categorical one by defining some levels based on a predefined threshold is not always a very good idea. 
- From analyses1: our model did not close predict the outcome values 
- I don't trust my findings - I was not able to complete all of the analyses in time.
- I found a positive association between the percentage of current adult smokers and the number of premature death per 1,000 in the states of Ohio, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Virginia, and Wisconsin. As the percentage of current adult smokers increases, the number of premature death per 1,000 increases as well. Besides, the number of premature death per 1,000 is different among each state. 
- I found that a greater percentage of individuals experiencing mental distress for at least 14 days per month was significantly associated with the a fewer number of mental health providers per person in the states of California, Arizona, Ohio, Alabama, New York, and Florida. This finding speaks to the fact that availability of mental health care is lowest in counties that may have the greatest need among the states examined.
- I found that counties in my sample with high levels of income inequality had significantly higher percentages of low weight births (<2500 g). In our linear regression model, income inequality category explained 18% of the variance in low birthweight in our 6 state, 349 county sample.
- I found that there is a positive association between unemployment and poor mental health days with each percent increase in unemployment resulting in an increase of 0.06 poor mental health days. While this result is significant it explains very little of the variation in poor mental health days ,~7 % variation explained and has a small effect size at 0.06 days. 
- In analysis 2, we investigated if there was an association between categorized smoking values and an increase in excessive drinking rate. Our model predicted two possible outcomes. The model predicted that excessive drinking rate was actually higher among counties with a lower smoking rate. The model was not very effective at predicting excessive drinking rate, based upon categorized smoking data because it only explained 23% of the variation in the data. 
- In analysis 3 my question was: “How well does excessive drinking predict number of mentally unhealthy days in 369 counties after accounting for differences between states?” This was a direct continuation of my work in analysis 1 as factoring for states was one of my suggestions for improving the model. As my R-Squared value in analysis 3 is the exact same one that I got in analysis 1, we can say that factoring for states did not significantly improve our model.My low R-squared score and high standard error indicate that excessive drinking is not enough to predict number of mentally unhealthy days on its own, even when we account for differences in states.
- In analysis one, a key finding that our model predicted was that as the unemployment rate increased by a percent, the rate of excessive drinking decreased. This was contradictory to what we had hypothesized before we began the analysis, which was that the excessive drinking rate would go up if the unemployment rate also goes up.  
- In Analysis1, we found out that it would not be helpful to transform the health status variable, even when you are given many options. It is not always best to go with a transformation. In Analysis2, we found that the linear model was reasonable, but not as accurate as we would like. In Analysis 3, was hard to read and sometimes the visual data conflicted with the model results.
- In conclusion our research question in analysis 1, the linear regression is a proper approach to estimate the outcome life expectancy. This was done even though we assumed our model was evenly distributed. The estimated mean value of average life expectancy of the entire U.S population is approximately 77.2 years.
- In looking at the association between preventable hospitalization rate and number of mental health providers the overall trend showed a weak negative linear association. However when separated out by state clear variation in this trend was observed with for example Massachusetts actually showing a very weak positive linear association. This finding brings to light the potential importance larger regional variations may be having on preventable hospitalization rates.
- In my first analysis, I was interested in understanding if an increase in teenagers giving birth increased diabetes prevalence in a population. Based on the scatterplot and linear regression model that I generated, there is a slight increase in diabetes prevalence when the number of teenagers giving birth in a population increases. To be more exact the diabetes prevalence increased by 0.169*(value of the teen_birth variable).
- Increased self reported physical inactivity is associated with lower life expectancy such that any 1% increase in reported physical inactivity results n 0.28 years lower life expectancy for a given county.
- Key finding is that categorical variables, that are inherently meant as continuous variables, are not well suited for making predictions of the outcome. The mean difference between the two categories in the categorical variable was almost as big as the mean residual error. 
- Key finding that I found particularly interesting the scatterplot in Analysis 3 for the State of Washington showed that as low birthweight decreased, severe housing problems increased. I do not think this is a true association, as the housing problems in WA are currently wide spread, but I did think it was something key to note.
- Life expectancy is slightly correlated with adult smoking rate: a higher smoking rate may lead to a shorter life expectancy.  We find that a linear regression model can be built for the relationship between adult smoking and life expectancy. For Ohio (our baseline group), every 1% increase in smoking percentage shortens life expectancy by 0.87 years. If a county is in California, the life expectancy is further shortened. This is also true for Washington. 
- Logarithm of diabetes prevalence is strongly associated with median household income and low physical inactivity, but not with high school graduation percentage.
- Median income has a negative association to poor mental health days in the five states we analyzed. 
- Mental distress is an excellent predictor of smoking in the counties examined in this project. The mental distress rate explains 84% of the variability in mean adult smoking rates. Additionally, for each 1% increase in frequent mental distress rate, the mean adult smoking rate increases by 1.62 (90% CI: 1.56, 1.68). Though this should not be considered causal, it may be useful in prioritizing locations for tobacco cessation programs.
- My favorite finding of ours was from analysis 3. We looked at excessive drinking and premature death. We found a negative relationship between the two variables, meaning that as self-reported excessive drinking went up, premature death went down (our R-squared for the linear model was 0.4, so pretty high). This directional relationship was true for all four midwestern states we chose. This direction confused Maggie and me because we did not have a good explanation why the two variables would interact like that. It would be cool to do another analysis to understand the confounding factors that hopefully help explain our result!
- My key finding was that the percentage of rural area did not do an adequate job of predicting the index of air pollution. Usually, there is a link between the two, so I thought it would come close to estimating the index for Cuyahoga County. 
- My linear models all had very large errors except severe housing problems - which used OH as a baseline. In addition, external factors may drive some of the parameters / data that we use that are not accounted for such as rural vs urban areas. Furthermore, depending on variables that we use, many are very outdated or are estimates and may not represent the population that accurately.
- None of our analysis yielded particularly strong or meaningful results, unfortunately. I personally found it surprising in Analysis 1 that the relationship between poor mental health days and mental health providers to be essentially 0; when we were selecting our variables, Katrina and I thought lack of access to mental health providers might increase the number of poor mental health days people experience. From the dataset and in the states we selected, this ended up not being true.
- One key finding from our report was that there was a negative association between median household income (in dollars) and the number of reported poor mental health days in the past 30 days, meaning that as median household income increased, the number of poor mental health days decreased.
- One key finding of my project was that high school graduation rate had an indirect relationship with child mortality, such that as high school graduation rate increased, child mortality decreased. However, the data only fit the model moderately well, which suggested that other factors likely needed to be corrected in order for the model to perform more effectively. 
- One key finding of our project A study is that we saw that there was an association between Median income and the number of suicides. State also played a role in the number of suicides in a county. We did not get evidence of a strong level of association between the predictor variables and the outcome variable. However, we did determine that the predictor variables (Median Income and State) did influence the suicides per 100,000 people. 
- One key finding was that with increased values of days of poor mental health, life expectancy decreased. The data was fit to a model that predicted life expectancy = 100.96 -5.32 * (poor mental health days) indicating an inverse relationship. 
- Our analyses found that our outcome was not easily predictable for the three variables in which we chose to study. We had low Pearson correlation and r-squared values for analysis 1, which shows a low predictive value and high variance. We also found counties in GA to be the most unsuccessful, as for more than one analysis.
- Our key finding for Analysis 3, which was the state specific analysis, was that their was a negative linear relationship between excess drinking and premature death within the 4 states that we looked at. The linear model at an R-squared value of 0.4, meaning it was fairly reliable. We were not expecting an increase in excess drinking to decrease levels of premature death within counties. It is likely that confounding factors are present. 
- Progressively higher income categories were convincingly associated with progressive higher life expectancies for the counties of Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, and Pennsylvania.
- Prolonged physical distress explains a great deal of variation in years of life lost per 100,000 individuals in the counties.
- Surprisingly, our linear model predicts higher excessive drinking rate is associated with longer life expectancy and the correlation is fairly strong. The assumptions of linear regression, however, are not held well. So, our conclusion is that a linear model may not effectively (at least in our data set) reveal the relationship between drinking and life expectancy. 
- The categorical variable food insecurity level shows that a lack of food can have an association with suicides. Suicides may be lowered if federal funding for "food closets" and increased access to healthy choices were available. 
- The correlations among the predictors  and the outcome were generally weak. I expected to see inverse correlations. This came up true after making the three analyses. However, the correlations were generally weak. At this point, I am suspecting that my indicators for socioeconomic factors were not really correlated with the socioeconomic status of the people of the states I have investigated.
- The key findings I wish to highlight is contained in analysis one of our project which examined the association between percentage of population living in rural areas and violent crime rates. Media footage and political rhetoric has led many people on all side of the political spectrum to conclude that violent crime is increasing in urban areas. While civil unrest and conflict has been a hallmark of some cities around the country I think that an empirical analysis whether "rurality" or urban-living impacts the risk of violent crime is timely. We found a fairly weak association between percentage of the population living in a rural area and violent crime rates in the six swing election states we examined. 
- The most fascinating finding from our analyses were that of analysis 3. The linear model to predict premature age-adjusted death rates from the percentage of children living in a single parent household was a reasonable model until we accounted for the differences between the states we looked at. When states were accounted for, the distribution could no longer be considered Normal and the distributions of residuals varied greatly when we viewed a boxplot of this relationship. The model when accounting for states was not an accurate method to predict the outcome.  Overall, none of our models seemed very accurate to predict the outcome of premature age-adjusted death rates when looking at our various predictor variables.
- The percentage of adults under the age of 65 that are uninsured is related to the number of suicides per 100,000 when accounting for state differences.
- The percentage of self-reported poor or fair health is associated with life expectancy and  poor physical health. 
- The prediction equation model for analysis 2 was accurate in predicting the outcome variable (suicide) by the level of the (motor vehicle deaths) among the five states. We were able to observe a positive relationship between the outcome and the predictor. Unfortunately, we were not able to assume the causality relationship due to multiple factors, but one of them was the time that the data was gathered in different years. 
- The project involved assessing various factors as predictors of premature deaths in US counties (analysis restricted to 308 counties of 4 selected states). Population frequency of mental distress was found to be a better predictor of premature death rate than motor crash death rate as the predictor.
- There is a fairly strong, negative association between adult obesity rate and life expectancy among 230 counties in Ohio, New York, New Jersey, and Colorado. The relationship appeared strongest in New Jersey and New York. In a fitted model relating adult obesity rate and life expectancy, adult obesity rate had a coefficient of over -30, before accounting for differences in states.
- There is a positive association between income inequality and the log(premature death) across the 242 counties of WA, MN, OH and UT. Specifically, as the level of income inequality increased in a county, the log(premature death) also increased. Interestingly, the state had an independent effect on premature death, indicating that for the same level of inequality, there was the least amount of premature death in MN as compared to WA, OH, and UT.
- There is a positive correlation between the predictor variable "children in poverty" and the outcome variable "Premature age-adjusted mortality". Premature age-adjusted mortality  increases as the percentage of children in poverty increases .
- There is a possible but likely not significant relationship between premature death and traffic volume. The slope of the linear regression model was negative suggesting that premature death decreases with more traffic volume. This could be due to confounding factors such as access to care being greater in areas with more traffic for instance. 
- There is a significant difference in life expectancy for counties when stratified into halves at the median for prevalence of obesity. On an average, persons in a county with a higher prevalence of obesity will live 1.5 years less than their peers.
- There is a weak positive correlation between adult smoking percentage and suicidal rates. High unemployment which is unemployment percentage equal to or above 4.67% is a risk factor for increased suicidal rates. There was a near similar weak positive correlation risk of adult smoking percentage on the suicidal rate across the four states.
- Those living in non-rural areas tend to have a higher life expectancy. There was only one relevant exception, Mono County, California (97 years), which had a life expectancy that far exceeded other counties with 46% of the population living in a rural area. After researching the county, I attributed this to the smaller population size which may have skewed the data due to higher values showing up more frequently thereby raising the average life expectancy. 
- Through the analyzation of the data, we were able to propose a research question. My partner and I were attempting to uncover, how well does a linear model predict the outcome of premature age adjusted death rates when using reported insufficient sleep percentages in 203 counties in the following states, Alaska, New Jersey, Ohio, South Carolina, and Wyoming. Based on the graphs as well as the visualizations and running the linear models we can see that for Cuyahoga County that the model can reasonably predict the outcome of premature age adjusted death rates when using percentage of insufficient sleep as a predictor.
- Using 2020 County Health Rankings data, among the 334 counties I studied in OH, WA, CA, NY, and MN, there was no linear relationship between income inequality and years of potential life lost. This was supported by a horizontal line of best fit and a correlation coefficient of nearly 0. There was no adjustment for confounders and transformation did not improve the relationship. 
- Using high school graduation (HSG) rates to predict life expectancy from data compiled from Arizona, California, Georgia, Ohio, and Pennsylvania at the county level we investigated if higher rates of HSG positively impacted life expectancy. A linear regression model revealed that this was not the case. Limitations such as non-linearity and pooled rather than parsed by state data led to the conclusion that HSG rate alone may not be suitable to accurately predict life expectancy.
- We compared our outcome, low birthweight rates, to a binary categorical predictor, food insecurity. We created this factor by splitting the food insecurity values at their median. We found a slight increase in low birthweight rates with high levels of food insecurity, but the association is not powerful. Improvements to the model could likely be made by using the numeric variable instead of a binary one and incorporating more predictors into our model.
- We created a mode that attempted to predict rates of violent crime based on their belonging to one of five ranges of median household income. The model indicated very weak predictive ability (Multiple R-Squared = 0.086; p<0.01).  Models made from categorical variables suffer limited predictive ability as they only produce one value for an entire category, where a continuous variable can offer a more specific outcome prediction for each predictor input.
- We found that for the predictor of percentage of 18 years and younger is weakly associated to adults 20+ reporting physically inactive. We believe the main reason for the weak association is that the target population is completely different for the two variables. The best way to fix this if we want to further investigate these variables is to take into account whether the adults reporting physically inactive have children and the age of the children which would be associated with our predictor.
- We found there was a meaningful difference in adult smoking percentage between median income groups in 302 counties in 4 states (Ohio, Alabama, Arkansas, and Wisconsin). Specifically, the adult smoking percentage was (on average) 4.05 points higher in the income group that was below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level for a family of four than that for the income group above 133% of the FPL.
- When accounting for differences between States, I found that food insecurity, as a predictor / measure of nutritional risk per county, can reasonably approximate the prevalence of low birth weights through a simple linear model. This model projected a moderately strong, positive association between increased food insecurity and increased low birthweight percentages.  

### What is the most important thing that you know now that you wished you'd known when you began Project A?

-  how to write a good conclusion - paying attention to the details - able to know the limitations.
- (1) pick an outcome that makes sense to you (2) do not choose a variable that on the county health rankings website says is not associated with the outcome (3) pick a variable for analysis  1 that has an association and then build upon that in analysis 3 to see how adjusting for state improves the relationship even more (a before and after would've been cool)
- Adding a multilevel categorical variable on a quantitative outcome to a model that already has another quantitative predictor variable is nuanced. I looked at adding it im the model, although I suspect it could also be multiplied. 
- Analytically, I wish I had thought more about which variables we mutated into categorical variables.  I feel, in the end, that we could have created a better model for predicting violent crime rates from household income as a continuous variable rather than as a categorical variable. I also wish I knew more about the AIC portion of multiple regressions.  Not that we were asked to build multiple multiple regressions, but I do feel like I would have liked ot know more about how the output is created in R.
- Before starting, I had assumed that most of the time and difficulty involved in this project would be with the coding itself. It's becoming very clear that this isn't the case; there is so much more work and thought that needs to be put into understanding the data, selecting relevant values, deciding which analyses to run, and interpreting often vague results. I definitely needed to do a lot of revising, and wish I had been more thorough in my preparatory work.
- Better English  and R writing
- Coming up with a research question is tough and finding the way to word the conclusion to answer the research question is a close second. I was surprised by the difficulty and initially wondered if we were doing something wrong. I had not anticipated the amount of time we would need to spent on the writing part and now have a better understanding on why writing effectively is such a big part of our labs. 
- creating video on zoom
- Do a little bit each day! It is hard to find time to work together so definitely do not leave it to the last minute. Try and get ahead as much as you can!
- For some of these models there were issues with the distribution not being normal; I wish prior to Project A being completed I would have learned nonparametric testing such as bootstrap (since this wasn't included in this project).
- Hope I have learned that we should not struggle to find a transformation that optimizes our linear model. That caused a lot of trouble. Finally, we stick with the original data simply because this makes it easier to interpret our model. Mediocre transformations that cause a lot of confusion in terms of interpretation are not worth using. 
- How to re-level the states. I couldn't remember which class I learned it in, and my original code always had issues
- how we could build a model form categorical variable
- I am fairly comfortable with coding so at the beginning I underestimated the time to complete the project.  I wish I would have kept in mind that the longest time is really spent on contemplating and explaining the results rather than the coding itself. 
- I didn't expect it was going to take so long. 
- I hoped I could fully understand the concept of the baseline of a categorical variable and how to interpret the prediction equation with the transformed outcome and a multi-categorical variable.
- I learned that I should not make conclusions about my data after seeing the numerical values(output). When analyzing the data it is easy to come to a conclusion based only on the numerical results, however that conclusion might completely shatter once the graphs are generated. 
- I needed more time and more help
- I now finally understand the purpose of cleaning the data for the proposal. I was originally very confused as to the goal for the finished product of the project, so it took me quite a bit of time to comprehend what I should be doing in terms of cleaning. 
- I should have put aside more time for this project to really go through it and understand what is expected of me rather than dive into it without preparation. This hindered me in smoothly going through the project.
- I understood some of the course concepts during my work for project A, like plotting the residuals and getting the coefficients. I also discovered that working with TAs during office hours was very helpful in clarifying some ideas. I think working on the project was more helpful than the labs since I am applying my knowledge toward a real problem instead of just answering a question for the lab. I wished if I had a partner since the work for project A was more than I expected. I didn't have the time to look for one at the beginning of the course and now I regret it, but I am happy at the same time that I did all the work by myself. 
- I wish I had known complex each response requirements would be.  I think seeing the outline of three analyses made me think that this project was not as intensive as it actually was. 
- I wish I had known earlier different resources that would make collaborating with a partner easier. A big challenge was figuring out a way to share our working documents together. Initially one of us would screen-share R studio so we could work on coding together, but found it too inefficient. Later on, we discovered using GitHub, which made our work flow a lot more streamlined and convenient.
- I wish I had known that R had a feature where you can name the “chunks,” and a mini table of contents could be accessed. I had only recently discovered this (early this week) and this helped with going through opposite ends of the R markdown without endlessly scrolling. 
- I wish I had known what was going to required for the entire project prior to choosing whether or not to have a partner. I found that after I agreed to work with someone, then the full idea of the project was discussed in class, and only then did I realize that I would have rather worked alone.
- I wish I had realized that it will be difficult for me to do the project while working. I did not think it was going to take such a long time, and while the actual generation of code wasn't the issue, the writing of analyses, interpreting the plots, looking for relationship, and going over the checklist took a while.
- I wish I had remembered to use the clean_names format in my proposal. It was not a huge deal, but very tedious to fix in the final project and required great attention to detail to make sure that all instances of variables not in the clean_names were removed and replaced in the R Markdown file. 
- I wish I had the 40 bulleted final check list and data conversions considerations at the beginning of proposal 1. 
- I wish I had understood better how to identify the original variables used in this project, first selected in the proposal. As I had stated in the challenges section of the proposal, I struggled with this aspect, even after seeking helping. I think if I had chosen better variables, I would not have struggled as much with creating good research questions. 
- I wish I knew how difficult it was to cram two analyses in one 3 minute video. Additionally, I wish I knew how to better state my conclusions in words. I feel that I avoid saying much of anything because I do not want to mistakenly say something.
- I wish I knew that this project was not something to be truly stressed over. I think I got overwhelmed with all the prompts and expectations. Dr. Love was amazing at providing all the necessary info, and I really got muddled down initially. Then once I started the project, everything just was easy to follow and complete. I think I just needed to be calmer and I think the overall process would have been much easier than how I made it out to be. 
- I wish I knew the amount of coding is actually less than I expected and the amount of writing and presentation is much more than I expected. 
- I wish I was able to use usmap package in R more appropriately to generate some beautiful heatmaps in my project. I wish I could incorporate the location of each county in the usmap (latitude and longitude) to show the for example the most obese county in our study. 
- I wish I would have known what type of research questions we would be asking (ie that we would be building linear models) before we picked our variables so that we could have considered some of the scatter plots when picking out variables and picked variables which would have been more reasonable to expect a linear association.
- I wish I would have looked at the available variables more to think about interesting research questions. Writing interesting and meaningful questions was kind of tricky, especially when our results ended up not being meaningful.
- I wish that I had cleaned up as much of my proposal as possible to avoid potential confusion while working with the data during the analysis phase. There were many times when I had to review my notes as to what the significance of each variable.
- I wish that I had known more about the assumptions inherent to linear models and the steps needed to evaluate them. The residual analysis section of analysis 1 took me quite a while because I was going back through course notes and online resources to make sure I was evaluating everything correctly. 
- I wish that I had known to convert variable proportions to percentages before beginning, perhaps during the proposal stage. This took a decent amount of time to go back adjust everywhere I had previously interpreted "proportion" which I didn't realize was needed until I went through the checklist before submitting. 
- I wish that I had left myself more time to work through the Analysis and really think about the different pros and cons of certain transformations, plot decisions, and research questions. 
- I wish that I knew how great of an emphasis would be placed on evaluating the shape of the distribution (both of the data and the residuals). I had incorrectly assumed that this would be a minor piece of the project. However, in retrospect, that was a silly assumption given how much time we spent on this in class. 
- I wish that I would have kept a more detailed journal of often-used R code after each class session and reviewed it weekly to make additions from other sources like class notes and R textbooks. I have partially done this, but often refer to things as needed. Having vital information in one location would have aided me in the completion of this project.
- I wish the instructions could have been clearer about how to decide to do a transformation or not. I feel my partner and I squandered a lot of time on agonizing over this. 
- I wished that I should be more familiar with the residual analysis so that I do not need to refer to the powerpoint a lot. 
- I would have like to have been more aware of the amount of time I would need to put into this project. The number of times I recorded myself was not insignificant. 
- In retrospect, Josh and I discussed how it would be interesting to have treated household income as a continuous variable. We could have treated percentage of the population as rural as a categorical multi-level variable. If household income was treated as a continuous variable there might have been a stronger association detected in a linear model. Perhaps trialing a few different variable treatments prior to delving fully into the analysis might have been beneficial. That being said, time is a limiting factor in some ways and the project as is took a substantial amount of effort even for the two of us combined. 
- It is taking too much time more than I expected
- It requires a lot more time than expected, it is easy to miss things in proper english. Slow down and go through it.
- It would have been smart to have read the entire R document with instructions before hand because a lot of the time, we would read the prompt but not the rest of the instructions or sections following. So in the end, we would do an unnecessary amount of work prior, and then end up removing or deleting things that weren't relevant. 
- Knowing how to use fct_relevel in R. 
- Prior to project A, I was not aware how the code to attain certain information from the data does not have to be difficult nor new found code each time. BUT, a simple manipulation of the code. I hadn’t quite noticed before. 
- R coding to analyze and evaluate the data for example making multiple plots, and linear regression.
- Somehow I tough proposal was due midnight.. it was due noon. I wish I payed more attention to that.
- That there are a lot of different instructions to look at- it is insufficient to look at just one instruction set, as the data needed are actually found in multiple instruction sets.
- That there would be a lot of minutae to consider before submitting the report, as well as considering finding a time when I was at home and not in class / in the hospital to film the video. 
- That we should have started a little earlier because we both had very busy schedules and different opinions on things. so we had to work through the analysis step by step.
- The biggest roadblock for our group when working on the project was not reading through the template for the proposal before beginning to address the tasks. This caused problems for us as we spent tons of time trying to code things from scratch that were provided in an assisted format further down in the template. I wish we had known to do this, but this was definitely completely our fault. 
- The format of the report takes more time than the coding part.
- The most important thing I wish I had known was how important the selection of the variables and states were for the analysis. Selecting these components based completeness of data, having a large number of observations, normality and other elements would have been quite helpful. Selection of these components simply based on interest may lead to requiring more time to complete the project.
- The most important thing that I know now that I wish I knew before would probably be plan for errors in coding better. I did not accurately plan for errors which took up most of my time.
- The most important thing that I learned was that even if you think you're ahead, there will always be last-minute problems...so I need to plan so that I make sure that I'm not checking all of the work in a small time space before the project is due. There was  a problem with knitting last minute and a few variables that somehow disappeared in our final homework (I know, I know, "dog ate my homework", but it was quite stressful).
- The most important things I know now that I wish I knew before I began project A has to do with interpretations and troubleshooting code. Getting plots set up and pretty is easy but interpretations take me a much longer time. Coupled with (from my perspective) difficult to understand expectations this made the project much harder than I anticipated. TA office hours and piazza helped mediate this issue. As for trouble shooting code, there were small things I needed to change to eliminate errors that were not covered in the course notes. I used google, my classmates, and TA office hours to bridge the gap but those small tricks would have been wonderful to know before getting started.
- The repetition with the analysis was very helpful in reinforcing the steps in creating an analysis, always starting with draw the picture.
- The stringency with which it is expected of me to pay attention to details
- The time allotted for the video is actually quite short and difficult to manage without a timer.
- Time commitment. It was way too much time consuming and it's already a very difficult semester for all of us. Being aware of it earlier would have helped a bit.
- To have a better standing of variables that I choose.
- When I began project A, I wish we would have allowed more time to meet with one another separately and figured out how to utilize GitHub. Allowing more time, would have also allowed us to attend more TA office hours.
- Whenever I have a question, should seek a help immediately. Do not wait to the last minutes. It will save a lot of time for me.
- While working on this project I reviewed many of the previous lectures and notes chapters. I wish I had had the understanding of the class materials that I have now when I started the project. 
- Working with the Project, I got an opportunity to learn the R-Studio and statistics subtly and gains knowledge about regression. I am acquainted with County Health ranking real data as well.
